#About LevelCheck
levelcheck is a python program written by rudy trubitt, rudy@trubitt.com

It uses **sox** and **ffmpeg** to get RMS and LUFS level values for a list of .wav files. 
Only .wav files are analyzed in this initial version. 
It has been tested on mono and stereo sound files, but not multi-channel files.


#Installation:

Make sure you have python 3 installed.
Install sox (http://sox.sourceforge.net)
Install ffmpeg (https://www.ffmpeg.org)

Both sox and ffmpeg should also be in a directory that is part of your current PATH, for example, /usr/local/bin. 
This way, the script will be able to find sox and ffmpeg from  any working directory.


#Useage:
<ol>
<li>Open a terminal window and navigate to your working folder containing the .wav files you want to measure. </li>
<li>Copy the script into your working folder.</li>
<li>Enter the command:</li></ol>

    python levelcheck.py <return>
   
   note: If this gives you a PRINT syntax error, try "python3" instead, like this:
   
    python3 levelcheck.py <return></li>
   
The results are printed to the terminal, sorted by RMS. Here is an example:

    -11.86 dB RMS, -10.7 dB LUFS, ./InLane2.wav
    -11.97 dB RMS, -10.5 dB LUFS, ./InLane4.wav
    -12.71 dB RMS, -12.2 dB LUFS, ./WeHaveWinner.wav
    -12.79 dB RMS, -11.4 dB LUFS, ./InLane1.wav
    -14.06 dB RMS, -13.0 dB LUFS, ./LetsGetReady2Race.wav
    -14.25 dB RMS, -12.9 dB LUFS, ./InLane3.wav
    -15.82 dB RMS, -13.8 dB LUFS, ./StartYourEngines.wav
    -16.41 dB RMS, -14.6 dB LUFS, ./AndTheyreOff.wav
    -17.32 dB RMS, -14.7 dB LUFS, ./PinewoodDerbySFX.wav
    -18.28 dB RMS, -16.7 dB LUFS, ./crowd_attack_short.wav
    -19.42 dB RMS, -14.6 dB LUFS, ./panned_stereo_file.wav
    -23.94 dB RMS, -22.7 dB LUFS, ./crowd_attack.wav
    -28.32 dB RMS, -27.0 dB LUFS, ./crowd_loop.wav
    -30.23 dB RMS, -28.1 dB LUFS, ./crowd_fade.wav
    
    Process finished with exit code 0

Note: A new folder in the working directory called **_levelcheckfiles** will be created. 
Levelcheck will create two new files for each .wav file in the working directory, 
one with the extension ".json" and the other with the extension ".lufs".
The json file contains about a dozen items generated by the Sox "stats" command, which have been
re-formatted to the json spec. The .lufs file contains the un-processed output of the ffmpeg command.

Both the .json and .lufs files will be left in the **_levelcheckfiles** folder after operation is finished.
The next time levelcheck is run, existing .json and .lufs files will be deleted and re-generated.

##Sample .json output file contents
    {
    "Filename" : "./AndTheyreOff.wav" ,
    "DC_Offset" : "0.000142" ,
    "Min_level" : "-0.999023" ,
    "Max_level" : "0.901825" ,
    "Pk_lev_dB" : "-0.01" ,
    "RMS_lev_dB" : "-16.41" ,
    "RMS_Pk_dB" : "-8.05" ,
    "RMS_Tr_dB" : "-53.60" ,
    "Crest_factor" : "6.61" ,
    "Flat_factor" : "0.00" ,
    "Pk_count" : "2" ,
    "Bit_depth" : "16/16" ,
    "Num_samples" : "99.0k" ,
    "Length_s" : "4.489" ,
    "Scale_max" : "1.000000" ,
    "Window_s" : "0.050"
    }
